progression.md, before:

# Cyan Skyblock Guide

Cyan's Nether Skyblock is a Minecraft challenge that player spawns in the nether, on a platform with only two blocks, and progress through the game using only vanilla features. It is designed for the 1.16+ nether update.

Original design, mod and map by [ProtoSky](https://github.com/DeadlyMC/ProtoSky), check out [Ray's Works series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0WgsD3qBtlo&list=PL-5egZTw99_6bTucOUg7sj0RY8aUvVwFO) on ProtoSky.

Cyan's Skyblock provides a few more starting items and loot table adjustments to make early game progression faster. Check the appendix for a list of differences from vanilla.

## Goals

The ultimate goal of nether skyblock is to collect every items possible. It is possible to collect a large majority of Minecraft items with only a few starting items.

* Early game: build a nether portal and escape the nether.
  * Collect building blocks and build a base.
  * Find the stronghold and kill the ender dragon.
* Mid game: Populate a village and obtain emeralds.
  * Open up more possiblity by trading with wandering traders.
  * Collect elytra and shulker boxes.
  * Build farms to obtain resources in large quantity.
* End game: Collect all items possible.

## Progression Guide

### Spawn

* Player spawn in the nether on top of a [Crimson Nylium](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nylium) block, with a [Crimson Fungus](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Fungus).
* **Hold shift (sneak)**, use the bone meal on the Crimson Fungus until a tree grows.
* Immediately remove the bottom two log blocks (Tips #1).
* Harvest the remaining logs, make a Crafting Table, a [Composter](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Composter), and use the crafting table to make Crimson [Slabs](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Slab).
* Carefully build a platform around the Crimson Nylium and collect all the [Nether Wart Blocks](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nether_Wart_Block) (tree leaves).
* Right click the composter with Nether Wart Block to obtain more bone meals.
* Bone meal the empty crimson nylium block. (Tip #2) Clear anything generates on the top until a Crimson Fungus spawns.
* Plant the Crimson Fungus on top of the Crimson Nylium and repeat the whole process.
* If done correctly, this will generate more bone meals to make logs renewable.

### Zombified Piglin farm

* After getting enough logs and make some basic tools, the next step is to make a [zombified piglin](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Zombified_Piglin) farm.
* Use the world seed in a [biome finder](https://www.chunkbase.com/apps/biome-finder) to find the nearest [Nether Wastes](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nether_Wastes) biome.
* Bridge over and make a farm. Zombified piglin only spawn in Nether Wastes biome. Be careful that [piglins](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Piglin) attack!
* Kill enough zombified piglins to obtain gold. Make some gold armor, and use the gold ingots to [barter](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Bartering) with piglin.
* Obtain the following items from bartering:
  * Iron nuggets -> bucket, tools, armor
  * Obsidian -> build a portal
  * Gravel -> flint -> flint and steel to light the portal
  * Fire charge -> light the portal
* Build and light a [nether portal](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nether_portal) (near spawn) with 10 obsidians and escape the nether.

### Overworld

* Bridge to the chest and lava source. Get items from chest.
* Use the water and lava to make a [cobblestone generator](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Cobblestone_farming).
* Expand the platform, plant trees and make farms with dirt (Tip #4), and build a infinite water source (Tip #5).
* Build a basic [mob farm](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Mob_farm) to get items:
  * Iron from zombie for armors and tools
  * String from spiders to make wool and beds
  * Bone from skeleton to make more bone meals

### Finding a nether fortress

* Generate the world with given seed in singleplayer. Find the coordinates where a nether fortress is supposed to be.
* Bridge to the nether fortress (remember to spawn proof the path!)
* Carefully build a spawn platform. It is recommended to enclose the spawn platform to control the mobs.
* Leave the platform and wait for blazes to spawn. Kill them (be careful!) to get [blaze rods](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Blaze_Rod).

### Finding a stronghold

* Barter with piglin to get enough [ender pearls](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Ender_Pearl).
* Generate the world with given seed in singleplayer. Find the coordinates where a stronghold is supposed to be.
* Travel to the corresponding coordinates ([Calculator](https://maximumfx.nl/portal/en/)) in the nether and build a portal.
* The [end portal](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/End_portal) should appear. Use water to fall down, craft enough [Eye of Ender](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Eye_of_Ender), use them to activate the portal.
* Prepare for the dragon fight.

### Defeat the ender dragon

* Bring enough building blocks. (needs a lot!)
* Bring some beds for explosion damage.
* Bridge or use a bow to destroy the end crystals.
* Stand in the middle bedrock platform, be careful and fight the dragon!
* After dragon is defeated, build around the bedrock platform including above the portal, so the [Dragon Egg](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Dragon_Egg) don't fall into void. Collect the dragon egg.

### Cure a villager

* Trap a [zombie villager](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Zombie_Villager) and a [witch](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Witch). Prepare a [golden apple](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Golden_Apple).
* Stand near the zombie villager, within 3 blocks from the witch.
* The witch will have 25% chance throw a [potion of weakness](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Splash_Potion#Splash_Potion_of_Weakness) at the player if the player does not yet have weakness, and will also affect the zombie villager.
* Right click the zombie villager with golden apple to start curing.
* Be careful, witch deals huge amount of damage! Leave the witch if your health is low.

### Obtain more items

* Cure two zombie villagers so they can breed and populate a village.
* Trade for emeralds, and use the emeralds to buy diamond items and enchanted books.
* Trade with [wandering trader](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Wandering_Trader) for many normally unobtainable items. Wandering traders spawn very slowly, be patient!

### Building more farms

* Make an iron farm with villagers
* Make a guardian farm for large amount of building blocks. Similar to finding a fortress and stronghold, find an [ocean monument](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Ocean_Monument) in singleplayer with the given seed.
* Make a raid farm for emeralds and [totem of undying](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Totem_of_Undying). Pillagers spawn where the [Pillager Outpost](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Pillager_Outpost) is supposed to be.
* Make a slime farm.

### Getting an elytra

Check out Ray's Works covering this part: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMZqrfPyzUw

* Even though the end city blocks are removed, the elytra in a item frame is an entity and won't be removed.
* However if the chunk with item frame is loaded, the item frame will drop and fall into the void.
* It is important that player should not load the chunks with elytra.
* Find the coordinate of the elytra in singleplayer with given seed. Build a flying machine and let it fly into where the elytra is supposed to be.
* The flying machine will travel into lazy loaded chunks. Make sure the flying machine stop (before a completely unloaded chunk) after travel to the correct location.
* Player can now load the chunk and find the elytra. Be careful with shulkers!


## Tips

1. Immediately remove the block above Crimson Nylium, otherwise it will turn into netherrack and become useless.

2. Put dirt around crimson nylium to have a higher chance to spawn Crimson Fungus.

3. [Hoglin](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Hoglin) is hostile and spawn in any light level. Try to prevent them from spawning in the starting platform! It's a good idea to always [spawn proof](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Spawn-proofing) certain areas or paths as mobs spawn very fast in skyblock.

4. Obtain more dirt blocks by crafting [coarse dirt](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Coarse_Dirt) with gravel and dirt.

5. Use water bottle 3 times on a cauldron and use a bucket to generate water. Make a infinite water source using 2 water.

# Appendix

## Startup Kit

Starting blocks in nether:

* 1x crimson nylium
* 1x crimson fungi

Starting blocks in the overworld:

* 1x grass block
* 1x lava block
* 1x chest:
  * 1x ice
  * 1x seed
  * 2x sugarcane
  * 2x melon slice
  * 2x pumpkin seed
  * 2x oak sapling

Each player get when joining for the first time:

* 16x bone meal
* 1x dirt
* 1x obsidian

## Crafting recipes

* bucket + obsidian = lava bucket
* 8x bone meal + dirt block (in the middle) = grass block
* 8x bone meal + netherrack (in the middle) = crimson nylium

## Mob drops

#### Blaze
* \+ 2.5% drop 1 nether wart (+1% per looting level, killed by player only)

#### Zombie (Zombie villager, husk)
* 2.5% drop carrot, potato ~~or iron ingot~~ (+1% per looting level, killed by player only)
* \+ 7.5% drop 1 iron ingot (+2% per looting level, killed by player only)

#### Husk
* \+ 35% drop sand (+8% per looting level)

#### Zombified Piglin
* drop ~~0-1~~ 0-3 gold nugget (+1 per looting level)
* ~~2.5%~~ 11% drop 1 gold ingot (~~+1%~~ +3% per looting level, killed by player only)
* **On average 1 kill generate 0.276 gold ingots without looting, 0.533 with looting III**

#### Piglin barter
|                                  | Chance | Min Drop | Max Drop | Gold ingots for 1 item | Zombie Piglin kill for 1 item |
|----------------------------------|--------|----------|----------|------------------------|-------------------------------|
|                                  |        |          |          |                        |                               |
| Soul Speed Book                  |  1.19% |        1 |        1 |                     84 |                   303.6144578 |
| Soul Speed Iron Boots            |  1.90% |        1 |        1 |                   52.5 |                   189.7590361 |
| Potion of Fire Resistence        |  1.90% |        1 |        1 |                   52.5 |                   189.7590361 |
| Splash Potion of Fire Resistence |  1.90% |        1 |        1 |                   52.5 |                   189.7590361 |
| Water Bottle                     |  2.38% |        1 |        1 |                     42 |                   151.8072289 |
| Iron Nugget                      | 11.90% |        4 |       11 |                   1.12 |                   4.048192771 |
| Ender Pearl                      |  2.38% |        2 |        4 |                     14 |                   50.60240964 |
| String                           |  4.76% |        3 |        9 |                    3.5 |                   12.65060241 |
| Quartz                           |  4.76% |        5 |       12 |            2.470588235 |                   8.929836995 |
| Obsidian                         |  4.76% |        1 |        1 |                     21 |                   75.90361446 |
| Crying Obsidian                  |  9.52% |        1 |        3 |                   5.25 |                   18.97590361 |
| Fire Charge                      |  9.52% |        1 |        1 |                   10.5 |                   37.95180723 |
| Leather                          |  4.76% |        2 |        4 |                      7 |                   25.30120482 |
| Soul Sand                        |  9.52% |        2 |        8 |                    2.1 |                   7.590361446 |
| Netherrack                       |  3.10% |        1 |        1 |            32.30769231 |                   116.7747915 |
| Crimson Nylium                   |  1.43% |        1 |        1 |                     70 |                   253.0120482 |
| Warped Nylium                    |  0.24% |        1 |        1 |                    420 |                   1518.072289 |
| Spectral Arrow                   |  4.76% |        6 |       12 |            2.333333333 |                    8.43373494 |
| Gravel                           |  9.52% |        6 |       12 |            1.166666667 |                    4.21686747 |
| Blackstone                       |  9.52% |        8 |       16 |                  0.875 |                   3.162650602 |
| Ancient Debris                   |  0.24% |        1 |        1 |                    420 |                   1518.072289 |

Commit message:

Deciding the seed and change spawn points

progression.md, after:

# Cyan Skyblock Guide

Cyan's Nether Skyblock is a Minecraft challenge that player spawns in the nether, on a platform with only two blocks, and progress through the game using only vanilla features. It is designed for the 1.16+ nether update.

Original design, mod and map by [ProtoSky](https://github.com/DeadlyMC/ProtoSky), check out [Ray's Works series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0WgsD3qBtlo&list=PL-5egZTw99_6bTucOUg7sj0RY8aUvVwFO) on ProtoSky.

Cyan's Skyblock provides a few more starting items and loot table adjustments. These changes make early game progression much faster, compared to the original protosky, but is still more challenging than the original [skyblock](https://www.minecraftmaps.com/survival-maps/skyblock). Check the appendix for a list of differences from vanilla.

**World Seed: `-7956436320368752080`**

## Goals

The ultimate goal of nether skyblock is to collect every items possible. It is possible to collect a large majority of Minecraft items with only a few starting items.

* Early game: build a nether portal and escape the nether.
  * Collect building blocks and build a base.
  * Find the stronghold and kill the ender dragon.
* Mid game: Populate a village and obtain emeralds.
  * Open up more possiblity by trading with wandering traders.
  * Collect elytra and shulker boxes.
  * Build farms to obtain resources in large quantity.
* End game: Collect all items possible.

## Progression Guide

### Spawn

* Player spawn in the nether on top of a [Crimson Nylium](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nylium) block, with a [Crimson Fungus](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Fungus).
* **Hold shift (sneak)**, use the bone meal on the Crimson Fungus until a tree grows.
* Immediately remove the bottom two log blocks (Tips #1).
* Harvest the remaining logs, make a Crafting Table, a [Composter](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Composter), and use the crafting table to make Crimson [Slabs](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Slab).
* Carefully build a platform around the Crimson Nylium and collect all the [Nether Wart Blocks](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nether_Wart_Block) (tree leaves).
* Right click the composter with Nether Wart Block to obtain more bone meals.
* Bone meal the empty crimson nylium block. (Tip #2) Clear anything generates on the top until a Crimson Fungus spawns.
* Plant the Crimson Fungus on top of the Crimson Nylium and repeat the whole process.
* If done correctly, this will generate more bone meals to make logs renewable.

### Zombified Piglin farm

* After getting enough logs and make some basic tools, the next step is to make a [zombified piglin](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Zombified_Piglin) farm.
* Use the world seed in a [biome finder](https://www.chunkbase.com/apps/biome-finder) to find the nearest [Nether Wastes](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nether_Wastes) biome.
* Bridge over and make a farm. Zombified piglin only spawn in Nether Wastes biome. Be careful that [piglins](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Piglin) attack!
* Kill enough zombified piglins to obtain gold. Make some gold armor, and use the gold ingots to [barter](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Bartering) with piglin.
* Obtain the following items from bartering:
  * Iron nuggets -> bucket, tools, armor
  * Obsidian -> build a portal
  * Gravel -> flint -> flint and steel to light the portal
  * Fire charge -> light the portal
* Build and light a [nether portal](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Nether_portal) (near spawn) with 10 obsidians and escape the nether.

### Overworld

* Bridge to the chest and lava source. Get items from chest.
* Use the water and lava to make a [cobblestone generator](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Cobblestone_farming).
* Expand the platform, plant trees and make farms with dirt (Tip #4), and build a infinite water source (Tip #5).
* Build a basic [mob farm](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Mob_farm) to get items:
  * Iron from zombie for armors and tools
  * String from spiders to make wool and beds
  * Bone from skeleton to make more bone meals

### Finding a nether fortress

* Generate the world with given seed in singleplayer. Find the coordinates where a nether fortress is supposed to be.
* Bridge to the nether fortress (remember to spawn proof the path!)
* Carefully build a spawn platform. It is recommended to enclose the spawn platform to control the mobs.
* Leave the platform and wait for blazes to spawn. Kill them (be careful!) to get [blaze rods](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Blaze_Rod).

### Finding a stronghold

* Barter with piglin to get enough [ender pearls](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Ender_Pearl).
* Generate the world with given seed in singleplayer. Find the coordinates where a stronghold is supposed to be.
* Travel to the corresponding coordinates ([Calculator](https://maximumfx.nl/portal/en/)) in the nether and build a portal.
* The [end portal](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/End_portal) should appear. Use water to fall down, craft enough [Eye of Ender](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Eye_of_Ender), use them to activate the portal.
* Prepare for the dragon fight.

### Defeat the ender dragon

* Bring enough building blocks. (needs a lot!)
* Bring some beds for explosion damage.
* Bridge or use a bow to destroy the end crystals.
* Stand in the middle bedrock platform, be careful and fight the dragon!
* After dragon is defeated, build around the bedrock platform including above the portal, so the [Dragon Egg](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Dragon_Egg) don't fall into void. Collect the dragon egg.

### Cure a villager

* Trap a [zombie villager](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Zombie_Villager) and a [witch](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Witch). Prepare a [golden apple](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Golden_Apple).
* Stand near the zombie villager, within 3 blocks from the witch.
* The witch will have 25% chance throw a [potion of weakness](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Splash_Potion#Splash_Potion_of_Weakness) at the player if the player does not yet have weakness, and will also affect the zombie villager.
* Right click the zombie villager with golden apple to start curing.
* Be careful, witch deals huge amount of damage! Leave the witch if your health is low.

### Obtain more items

* Cure two zombie villagers so they can breed and populate a village.
* Trade for emeralds, and use the emeralds to buy diamond items and enchanted books.
* Trade with [wandering trader](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Wandering_Trader) for many normally unobtainable items. Wandering traders spawn very slowly, be patient!

### Building more farms

* Make an iron farm with villagers
* Make a guardian farm for large amount of building blocks. Similar to finding a fortress and stronghold, find an [ocean monument](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Ocean_Monument) in singleplayer with the given seed.
* Make a raid farm for emeralds and [totem of undying](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Totem_of_Undying). Pillagers spawn where the [Pillager Outpost](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Pillager_Outpost) is supposed to be.
* Make a slime farm.

### Getting an elytra

Check out Ray's Works covering this part: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMZqrfPyzUw

* Even though the end city blocks are removed, the elytra in a item frame is an entity and won't be removed.
* However if the chunk with item frame is loaded, the item frame will drop and fall into the void.
* It is important that player should not load the chunks with elytra.
* Find the coordinate of the elytra in singleplayer with given seed. Build a flying machine and let it fly into where the elytra is supposed to be.
* The flying machine will travel into lazy loaded chunks. Make sure the flying machine stop (before a completely unloaded chunk) after travel to the correct location.
* Player can now load the chunk and find the elytra. Be careful with shulkers!


## Tips

1. Immediately remove the block above Crimson Nylium, otherwise it will turn into netherrack and become useless.

2. Put dirt around crimson nylium to have a higher chance to spawn Crimson Fungus.

3. [Hoglin](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Hoglin) is hostile and spawn in any light level. Try to prevent them from spawning in the starting platform! It's a good idea to always [spawn proof](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Spawn-proofing) certain areas or paths as mobs spawn very fast in skyblock.

4. Obtain more dirt blocks by crafting [coarse dirt](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Coarse_Dirt) with gravel and dirt.

5. Use water bottle 3 times on a cauldron and use a bucket to generate water. Make a infinite water source using 2 water.

# Appendix

## Startup Kit

Starting blocks in nether:

* 1x crimson nylium
* 1x crimson fungi

Starting blocks in the overworld:

* 1x grass block
* 1x lava block
* 1x chest:
  * 1x ice
  * 1x seed
  * 2x sugarcane
  * 2x melon slice
  * 2x pumpkin seed
  * 2x oak sapling

Each player get when joining for the first time:

* 16x bone meal
* 1x dirt
* 1x obsidian

## Crafting recipes

* bucket + obsidian = lava bucket
* 8x bone meal + dirt block (in the middle) = grass block
* 8x bone meal + netherrack (in the middle) = crimson nylium

## Mob drops

#### Blaze
* \+ 2.5% drop 1 nether wart (+1% per looting level, killed by player only)

#### Zombie (Zombie villager, husk)
* 2.5% drop carrot, potato ~~or iron ingot~~ (+1% per looting level, killed by player only)
* \+ 7.5% drop 1 iron ingot (+2% per looting level, killed by player only)

#### Husk
* \+ 35% drop sand (+8% per looting level)

#### Zombified Piglin
* drop ~~0-1~~ 0-3 gold nugget (+1 per looting level)
* ~~2.5%~~ 11% drop 1 gold ingot (~~+1%~~ +3% per looting level, killed by player only)
* **On average 1 kill generate 0.276 gold ingots without looting, 0.533 with looting III**

#### Piglin barter
|                                  | Chance | Min Drop | Max Drop | Gold ingots for 1 item | Zombie Piglin kill for 1 item |
|----------------------------------|--------|----------|----------|------------------------|-------------------------------|
|                                  |        |          |          |                        |                               |
| Soul Speed Book                  |  1.19% |        1 |        1 |                     84 |                   303.6144578 |
| Soul Speed Iron Boots            |  1.90% |        1 |        1 |                   52.5 |                   189.7590361 |
| Potion of Fire Resistence        |  1.90% |        1 |        1 |                   52.5 |                   189.7590361 |
| Splash Potion of Fire Resistence |  1.90% |        1 |        1 |                   52.5 |                   189.7590361 |
| Water Bottle                     |  2.38% |        1 |        1 |                     42 |                   151.8072289 |
| Iron Nugget                      | 11.90% |        4 |       11 |                   1.12 |                   4.048192771 |
| Ender Pearl                      |  2.38% |        2 |        4 |                     14 |                   50.60240964 |
| String                           |  4.76% |        3 |        9 |                    3.5 |                   12.65060241 |
| Quartz                           |  4.76% |        5 |       12 |            2.470588235 |                   8.929836995 |
| Obsidian                         |  4.76% |        1 |        1 |                     21 |                   75.90361446 |
| Crying Obsidian                  |  9.52% |        1 |        3 |                   5.25 |                   18.97590361 |
| Fire Charge                      |  9.52% |        1 |        1 |                   10.5 |                   37.95180723 |
| Leather                          |  4.76% |        2 |        4 |                      7 |                   25.30120482 |
| Soul Sand                        |  9.52% |        2 |        8 |                    2.1 |                   7.590361446 |
| Netherrack                       |  3.10% |        1 |        1 |            32.30769231 |                   116.7747915 |
| Crimson Nylium                   |  1.43% |        1 |        1 |                     70 |                   253.0120482 |
| Warped Nylium                    |  0.24% |        1 |        1 |                    420 |                   1518.072289 |
| Spectral Arrow                   |  4.76% |        6 |       12 |            2.333333333 |                    8.43373494 |
| Gravel                           |  9.52% |        6 |       12 |            1.166666667 |                    4.21686747 |
| Blackstone                       |  9.52% |        8 |       16 |                  0.875 |                   3.162650602 |
| Ancient Debris                   |  0.24% |        1 |        1 |                    420 |                   1518.072289 |
